## Homework Assignment 3: Propositional logic

Logic symbols: ¬ () → ↔ ∧ ∨


### Background for this exercise

The following text is taken from the [University of Kentucky guidelines for
approval and administration of student awards](https://www.uky.edu/ufs/sites/www.uky.edu.ufs/files/bpm/E-7-11.pdf):

B. Award values are limited by funding source and the level of
   approval must be consistent with the award guidelines.
   
    1. Awards of $50 or less may be paid from unrestricted or
       restricted funds with the approval of the appropriate dean.
    2. Awards greater than $50 must be part of a program that has been
       specifically approved by the President or Provost.

C. Award Guidelines

    1. Category I – Awards Funded by Unrestricted General Funds
        a. Total cost or value of an award may not exceed $50, unless
           preapproved by the President or the Provost.
        b. Level of Approval: Dean	
    2. Category II – Awards Funded by Unrestricted General Funds –
       Self Supporting (i.e., vending income, bookstore income, other
       sources of auxiliary income)
        a. Awards are limited to a value of $50 unless they are part
           of a program that has been specifically approved by the
           President or the Provost.  Total cost or value of the award
           may not exceed $500.
        b. Level of Approval: Dean
    3. Category III – Awards Funded by Restricted Gifts. (The donor
       must specifically state that the gift may be used for student
       awards or that the gift may be used at the discretion of the
       College.)
        a. Awards are limited to a value of $50 unless they are part
           of a program that has been specifically approved by the
           President or the Provost.  Total cost or value of the award
           may not exceed the limits set by the donor. In the absence
           of donor restrictions, the total cost or value may not
           exceed $1,000.
        b. Level of Approval
           i.Awards of $500 or less: Dean
           ii. Awards greater than $500: Provost.



Let the following propositions be represented by these propositional letters:

- **A**: award value is $50 or less
- **B**: award value is $500 or less
- **C**: award payment has been approved by the dean.
- **D**: award is part of a program approved by the President
- **E**: award is part of a program approved by the Provost
- **F**: award may be paid from unrestricted general fund.
- **G**: award may be paid from a restricted fund.
- **H**: award is paid from a restricted gift.
- **I**: award is self supporting.
- **J**: award belongs to category I
- **K**: award belongs to category II
- **L**: award belongs to category III

### Part 1

A complete truth table for these twelve propositions will have 4096
lines. But common sense should rule out certain combinations of truth
values, even before considering the award guidelines.  Some
combinations can't be ruled out; for example, Category II awards are
self supporting, but also may be paid from unrestricted general
funds. It's therefore possible for a self-supporting award to be
payable from unrestricted general funds.

**Exercise 1.1**: Write a list of logical statements using the
propositional letters and the logical operators, each of which denotes
a constraint that can reduce the size of the truth table. Limit the
statements in this list to constraints that you are confident apply.
For each statement, write a 1-3 sentence justification in English that
explains how you know that the constraint is correct.

**Exercise 1.2**: Write a second list of logical statements, each of
which denotes a constraint that can further reduce the size of the
truth table if it's an actual domain constraint. Limit the statements
in this list to constraints that are consistent with the guidelines in
the outline, but that may not apply in this scenario. For each
statement, write a simple yes or no question that a University of
Kentucky administrator could answer to resolve whether or not it's an
appropriate constraint.

### Part 2

**Exercise 2.1**: Explain in English which ofC the following statements
best expresses (and why it best expresses) the constraint that "Awards
of $50 or less may be paid from unrestricted or restricted funds with
the approval of the appropriate dean."

1. (A ∧ C) ↔ (F ∨ G)
2. (A ∧ C) → (F ∨ G)
3. (F ∨ G) → (A ∧ C)

**Exercise 2.2**: Consider the rule that "Awards greater than $50 must be
part of a program that has been specifically approved by the President
or Provost." Using the propositional letters listed above, write a logical
expression that best expresses that constraint.

**Exercise 2.3**: Using the propositional letters listed above, write a
logical implication statement that captures all the constraints on
Category III awards. Explain in English why your statement has **L**
in the antecendent or the consequent (whichever of those you have
chosen).

