1. Review sections A-G of "Types of Employment" in the Harvard University Staff Employee Manual. The page is at this address: http://hr.harvard.edu/staff-personnel-manual/requirements-conditions-employment/types-employment
2. Section A begins with this sentence: "Regular employees are regularly scheduled to work 17.5 hours or more per week for a period exceeding 90 days in duration and/or will be regularly paid at the rate of at least $15,000 per year." Should the "and/or" be understood as a logical conjunction or a logical disjunction in this case? How do you know?
Express the logical form of that sentence as a material implication with the conjunction or disjunction you chose for step 2 as the antecedent. Your answer should conform to the syntactic constraints of propositional logic, and capture as much of the sentence meaning as possible within the expressive limitations of propositional logic. Include English sentence glosses for any propositional letters appearing in the formula.
3. Provide one example each of conjunction, disjunction, and material implication expressed elsewhere in the text on this page. Express them in propositional logic using the same guidelines as those in step 3.
4. Provide one example each of conjunction and disjunction presupposed by the text on this page, but not directly stated. That is to say, find an example of each of them that isn't stated, but has to be true for the text to make sense. 
5. Express these in propositional logic, following the same guidelines as in steps 3 and 4.
Upload your answers here, and include a paragraph of comments and reflections on challenges for analyzing these policies.
