Introduction
------------

WFF ‘n Proof is a logic game developed by Professor Layman Allen
(formerly of Yale Law School and the University of Michigan – Ann
Arbor). The goal of the game is to produce the longest “Well-Formed
Formula” from the symbols rolled on the dice.

Materials
---------

Each group of 6 students will receive a bag of 7 dice (6 six-sided and 1
four-sided) and 6 colored cubes (1 each of orange, green, black, blue,
pink, and red). Three of the dice have color-coded letters that
correspond to the colored cubes. Three of the dice have logic symbols
(see table below) that will allow the players to link the letters
together into a Well-Formed Formulas. Finally each bag contains a single
four-sided die for the more advanced gameplay options.

**Table 1: Logic Symbols**

  **Symbol**   **Logical Operation**
  ------------ ----------------------------
  →            implication (if…then)
  ↔            equality (if and only if)
  ¬            negation (not)
  ∧            conjunction (and)
  ∨            inclusive disjunction (or)

Object
------

The object of the game is to construct the longest possible Well-Formed
Formula from the dice rolled. Each roll of the dice will produce three
logic symbols and some combination of one-to-three colors. Players
should try to use all of the dice.

Basic Game Play
---------------

The game is played across multiple rounds.

Separate the colored cubes and the four-side die from the rest of the
dice.

Each group then selects one member to roll the dice and one member to
record the group’s final decided upon formula. Once rolled, team members
then discuss how best to use the results of the dice roll to construct
the longest possible Well-Formed Formula.

Once a formula has been agreed upon, it is recorded by another member of
the group. Once recorded, the group then selects a new dice roller and
new formula recorder. It is important that everyone in a group take
turns.

When assembling a Well-Formed Formula it will be important to consider
how each of the logical operators should be employed. The following
truth tables will be helpful.

**Table 2: Truth Table for Logical Implication (→)**

  ***p***   ***q***   ***p → q***
  --------- --------- -------------
  T         T         T
  T         F         F
  F         T         T
  F         F         T

**Table 3: Truth Table for Logical Equality (↔)**

  ***p***   ***q***   ***p ↔ q***
  --------- --------- -------------
  T         T         T
  T         F         F
  F         T         F
  F         F         T

**Table 4: Truth Table for Logical Negation (¬)**

  ***p***   ***¬p***
  --------- ----------
  T         F
  F         T

**Table 5: Truth Table for Logical Conjunction (∧)**

  ***p***   ***q***   ***p ∧ q***
  --------- --------- -------------
  T         T         T
  T         F         F
  F         T         F
  F         F         F

**Table 6: Truth Table for Logical Inclusive Disjunction (∨)**

  ***p***   ***q***   ***p ∨ q***
  --------- --------- -------------
  T         T         T
  T         F         T
  F         T         T
  F         F         F

Example of Game Play
--------------------

Brett, Ian, Leah, Linh, Melina, and Noah are in a group. Together they
decide that Linh will be the first to roll the dice and Noah will record
the resulting formula that the group assembles. Linh rolls the dice and
generates the following results: r, r, g, ¬, →, ∧. From this they
assemble the following formula: (¬ g→r) ∧r
